# Notes on embedding documents on a vector store (v1)

We want to exploit documents whose content is contained in a pdf file.

A **document** is a unit of knowledge we want to to exploit with embeddings.
They're represented by their _authors_, _title_, and publication _date_. Their
knowledge is contained in a _summary_ and their _content_. For example:

- Martin, O. (2020) L’empire des chiffres: une sociologie de la quantification.
  Malakoff: Armand Colin.
- "The best entrepreneurs balance brilliant business ideas with a rigorous
  commitment to serving their customers' needs. If you read nothing else on..."
- Blank et al_2018_HBR's 10 must reads.pdf

The latter is an _attachment_ to the document, containing the document's
_content_. For our matters, they can't be identified but by that raw content, or
by some metadata derived from the document they belong to, or both. A **pdf**
file is a kind of attachment with **pages**. Pages do not have a unique
identification, yet they allow us to localise a chunk of content within a file.

To exploit documents whose content is contained in a pdf, we want to **embed**
documents contents' into a **vector store**. Such a store can't hold entire
documents nor pages, but **chunks** of them. For example:

```json
{
    "embeddings"=[[1.2, 2.3, 4.5], [6.7, 8.2, 9.2]],
    "documents"=["This is a chunk", "This is another chunk"],
    "metadatas"=[{"source": "document1.id"}, {"source": "document1.id"}],
    "ids"=["chunk1.id", "chunk2.id"]
}
```

While these chunks can be identified by an _id_ based on the document they
belong to, as well as their sequential order within a pdf file's page, these are
useful but for the vector store. We only care about the chunk's content.

What the vector store calls documents, in our context they correspond to chunks
of a document's content. Likewise, documents are referenced in **Zotero** as
"items". Attachments are also stored and referenced there as "itemAttachments".
Our own definition of document if different from that of Zotero.
